The President:
Hi, everybody.
One of the most important
positions in the President's
Cabinet - and to our
national security, our
law enforcement, and our
criminal justice system -
is the Attorney General.
It's been more than
four months since
I nominated Loretta Lynch
to serve as the next
Attorney General of
the United States.
For 30 years, Loretta has
distinguished herself
as a tough, fair, and
independent attorney.
As the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern
District of New York,
she successfully prosecuted
the terrorists who
plotted to bomb the
Federal Reserve Bank
and the New York
City subway.
She helped secure billions
in settlements for people
wronged by some of the
world's biggest banks.
She's been dogged in her
pursuit of public corruption.
She's jailed some of New
York's most violent
and notorious mobsters
and gang members.
And through it all, she's
worked closely with
law enforcement and
local communities to get
the job done.
In short, her
qualifications are superb.
That's why, in the past, the
Senate easily confirmed
Loretta to lead one of
the most prominent
U.S. Attorney offices
in the country -
not once, but twice.
Still - it has been more
than four months since
I nominated Loretta
Lynch to serve
as Attorney General.
And this time, Republican
leaders in Congress won't
even let her nomination
come up for a vote.
In fact, by Monday, Loretta
will have been languishing
on the Senate floor for
longer than the seven
previous Attorneys
General combined.
Let me say that again - she
will have been waiting for
a simple yes-or-no vote on
the Senate floor for longer
than the seven previous
Attorney Generals combined.
No one can claim
she's unqualified.
No one's saying she
can't do the job.
Senators from both parties
say they support her.
This is purely
about politics.
First, Republicans held up
her nomination because they
were upset about the
actions I took to make our
broken immigration system
smarter and fairer.
Now they're denying her a vote
until they can figure out
how to pass a bill on a
completely unrelated issue.
But they could bring her
up for a yes-or-no vote
at any time.
Republicans promised
that Congress would
function smoothly with
them in charge.
Here's a small chance
for them to prove it.
Congress should stop playing
politics with law enforcement
and national security.
They should support good
people in both parties
who want to reform our
criminal justice system.
And that means they should
end the longest confirmation
process for an Attorney
General in three decades,
and give Loretta
Lynch a vote.
Thanks.
And have a
great weekend.